In this section, we're going to cover
a Linux distribution that's widely used in
security and discuss KALI LINUX™.
KALI LINUX™ is a trademark of Offensive
Security and is Debian derived.
This open-source distro was made
specifically with penetration testing and
digital forensics in mind.
There are many tools
pre-installed into KALI LINUX™.
It's important to note that KALI LINUX™
should be used on a virtual machine.
This prevents damage to your system in
the event its tools are used improperly.
An additional benefit is that using
a virtual machine gives you the ability to
revert to a previous state.
As security professionals advance in their careers,
some specialize in penetration testing.
A penetration test is a simulated attack
that helps identify vulnerabilities in
systems, networks, websites,
applications, and processes.
KALI LINUX™ has numerous tools that
are useful during penetration testing.
Let's look at a few examples.
To begin, Metasploit can be used to look for and
exploit vulnerabilities on machines.
Burp Suite is another tool that helps to
test for weaknesses in web applications.
And finally, John the Ripper is
a tool used to guess passwords.
As a security analyst, your work
might involve digital forensics.
Digital forensics is
the process of collecting and
analyzing data to determine what
has happened after an attack.
For example,
you might take an investigative look
at data related to network activity.
KALI LINUX™ is also
a useful distribution for
security professionals who
are involved in digital forensic work.
It has a large number of tools that
can be used for this. As one example,
tcpdump is a command-line packet analyzer.
It's used to capture network traffic.
Another tool commonly used in
the security profession is Wireshark.
It has a graphical user interface
that can be used to analyze live and
captured network traffic.
And as a final example,
Autopsy is a forensic tool used to
analyze hard drives and smartphones.
These are just a few tools
included with KALI LINUX™.
This distribution has many tools used to
conduct pen testing and digital forensics.
We've explored how KALI LINUX™ is
an important distribution that's widely
used in security,
but there are other distributions that
security professionals use as well.
Next we'll explore a few
more distributions.